# Stochastic-modeling-of-nonlinear-epidemiology

## Stochastic modeling of nonlinear epidemiology (Modeling Stochastic dynamics in epidemic network).

Infectious diseases are often transmitted through contacts of those infected with those susceptible; hence the processes are inherently nonlinear. According to the classical model of Kermack and McKendrick, or the SIR model, three classes of populations are involved in two types of processes: conversion of susceptibles (S) to infectives (I) and conversion of infectives to removed (R). The master equations of the SIR process have been formulated through the probabilistic population balance around a particular state by considering the mutually exclusive events. The efficacy of the present methodology is mainly attributable to its ability to derive the governing equations for the means, variances and covariance of the random variables by the method of system-size expansion of the nonlinear master equations. Solving these equations simultaneously along with rates associated influenza epidemic data yields information concerning not only the means of the three populations but also the minimal uncertainties of these populations inherent in the epidemic. The stochastic pathways of the three different classes of populations during an epidemic, i.e. their means and the fluctuations around these means, have also been numerically simulated independently by the algorithm derived from the master equations, as well as by an event-driven Monte Carlo algorithm. The master equation and Monte Carlo algorithms have given rise to the identical results.
